packages/fast-components-react-base/src/hypertext/DOCS.md, before:

## Best practices
Use *hyperlink* when you need to navigate the user to more information about the text that was selected. *Hyperlinks* are best used for tertiary actions outside the main work flow.

### Usage guidance
*Hyperlinks* may appear as standalone elements, on a line by themselves, or inline elements, in the middle of regular text. Use inline *hyperlinks* within the context of a sentence or a paragraph. Within a paragraph, *hyperlinks* should inherit the same formatting as the neighboring text as far as font size and font weight. Inline links will appear underlined.

### Style guidance
Two *hyperlinks* can appear consecutively on separate lines of text and wrap. *Hyperlink* text must be clear and unique. Multiple *hyperlinks* to same location should have identical link text.

### Behavioral guidance
If you need to initiate actions (e.g. download a file), consider using *action trigger* instead. For calls to action (e.g. "buy"), consider using *call to action*, and for the final action in a workflow (e.g. "save"), consider using *button*. Keep *hyperlinks* to just a few words, 4-5 max, not entire sentences. Don't include the period if *hyperlink* is at the end of a sentence.

## Accessibility
A *hyperlink* is required to have two points of visual distinction when *inline*. The underline and visual state colors are both required for accessibility.

Commit message:

missed hyperlink reference, and updated md doc to use hypertext

packages/fast-components-react-base/src/hypertext/DOCS.md, after:

## Best practices
Use *hypertext* when you need to navigate the user to more information about the text that was selected. *Hypertexts* are best used for tertiary actions outside the main work flow.

### Usage guidance
*Hypertexts* may appear as standalone elements, on a line by themselves, or inline elements, in the middle of regular text. Use inline *hypertext* within the context of a sentence or a paragraph. Within a paragraph, *hypertext* should inherit the same formatting as the neighboring text as far as font size and font weight. Inline links will appear underlined.

### Style guidance
Two *hypertexts* can appear consecutively on separate lines of text and wrap. *Hypertext* text must be clear and unique. Multiple *hypertext* to same location should have identical link text.

### Behavioral guidance
If you need to initiate actions (e.g. download a file), consider using *action trigger* instead. For calls to action (e.g. "buy"), consider using *call to action*, and for the final action in a workflow (e.g. "save"), consider using *button*. Keep *hypertexts* to just a few words, 4-5 max, not entire sentences. Don't include the period if *hypertext* is at the end of a sentence.

## Accessibility
A *hypertext* is required to have two points of visual distinction when *inline*. The underline and visual state colors are both required for accessibility.
