README.md, before:


# FAST-DNA overview
FAST-DNA is a set of tooling, resources, and components used to accelerate building Web sites and applications.

Teams spend significant time building parts of the design system (colors, variable font, typography, grid, components, etc.) which can slow adoption of the latest design guidelines and related technologies. FAST-DNA solves this problem by providing tooling and resources to accelerate development with code that is performant and accessible. Many of the resources are written to be framework agnostic and will work with any component library and JavaScript framework (React, Angular, etc.). We also support a number of React-specific packages for UI generation.

## Status
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/Microsoft/fast-dna/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=d159a8b24ccb8046e07138c98717c32cb92589d6)](https://circleci.com/gh/Microsoft/fast-dna/tree/master)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/8a74621e634a6e9b9561/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Microsoft/fast-dna/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/8a74621e634a6e9b9561/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Microsoft/fast-dna/test_coverage)
[![Build Status](https://saucelabs.com/buildstatus/FAST-DNA)](https://saucelabs.com/beta/builds/33e17283a9fb447ab220a8e00abe8f26)
[![lerna](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg)](https://lernajs.io/)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/support%20with-discord-cc00ff.svg)](https://discord.gg/FcSNfg4)
![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)
[![code style: prettier](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)

## Packages
[Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna#independent-mode---independent) is used to organize and manage this mono repository. Most of these packages are published to NPM. Users can choose à la carte which utility service to use in their development efforts.

[Continue on Wiki...](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/wiki/Packages)

## Component browser support
![Browser matrix](https://saucelabs.com/browser-matrix/FAST-DNA.svg)

## Documentation
This [GitHub Wiki](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/wiki) includes guidance on getting started, contributing, consumption, quality, testing, help, and community policies.

## Contact
* Ask for help [on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/fast-dna)
* Join the community [on Discord](https://discord.gg/FcSNfg4)
* Submit [requests / issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/issues/new/choose)
* Contributors [find issues to work on](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/labels/good%20first%20issue)

Commit message:

feat: update styles and images for docusaurus (#1190)
* update to highlight most important badges

* update to point to Docusaurus documentation

* update styles and images

* update color from rgb to hex

* update to fix spelling error

* update content

* add comment for commented out logo

* add more favicon options with sizes

* update to add more cta's

* update to send users to documentation landing page with overview content  rather than directly into docs

* update to replace names with more intuitive ones

README.md, after:


# FAST-DNA overview
FAST-DNA is a set of tooling, resources, and components used to accelerate building Web sites and applications.

Teams spend significant time building parts of the design system (colors, variable font, typography, grid, components, etc.) which can slow adoption of the latest design guidelines and related technologies. FAST-DNA solves this problem by providing tooling and resources to accelerate development with code that is performant and accessible. Many of the resources are written to be framework agnostic and will work with any component library and JavaScript framework (React, Angular, etc.). We also support a number of React-specific packages for UI generation.

## Status
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/8a74621e634a6e9b9561/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Microsoft/fast-dna/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/8a74621e634a6e9b9561/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/Microsoft/fast-dna/test_coverage)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/Microsoft/fast-dna/tree/master.svg?style=shield&circle-token=d159a8b24ccb8046e07138c98717c32cb92589d6)](https://circleci.com/gh/Microsoft/fast-dna/tree/master)
[![lerna](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg)](https://lernajs.io/)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/support%20with-discord-cc00ff.svg)](https://discord.gg/FcSNfg4)
[![code style: prettier](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-prettier-ff69b4.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)

## Packages
[Lerna](https://github.com/lerna/lerna#independent-mode---independent) is used to organize and manage this mono repository. Most of these packages are published to NPM. Users can choose à la carte which utility service to use in their development efforts.

[Continue on Wiki...](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/wiki/Packages)

## Browser support
Cross browser testing based on web browser rendering engines.

![Browser matrix](https://saucelabs.com/browser-matrix/FAST-DNA.svg)

[![Build Status](https://saucelabs.com/buildstatus/FAST-DNA)](https://saucelabs.com/beta/builds/33e17283a9fb447ab220a8e00abe8f26)

## Documentation
Checkout the [developer documentation](https://microsoft.github.io/fast-dna) for guidance on getting started, contributing, consumption, quality, testing, help, and community policies.

## Contact
* Join the community [on Discord](https://discord.gg/FcSNfg4)
* Ask for help [on Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/fast-dna)
* Submit [requests / issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/issues/new/choose)
* Contributors [find issues to work on](https://github.com/Microsoft/fast-dna/labels/good%20first%20issue)
