packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/action-trigger/README.md, before:

# Action trigger
Action trigger performs an operation that is positioned inline on the page. Use action trigger for taking an action or for interacting with something like a file or media resource. Examples include “Save,” “Edit,” or “Play.” Using an action trigger keeps the user within the current context rather than forcing them to navigate to a different page. Thus, use an action trigger as part of an interactive in-page experience.  Action trigger is built using a host element such as a button or an anchor, and can also be used in a group of elements. Typically, action triggers are used inside interactive tables or related to other interactive content. This means that the trigger should be co-located with the positioning of the material it will be acting upon. There is no provision for displaying alternate labels to indicate a change of state — use the action toggle if you need this capability.

## Usage
Use action trigger to take an action in the middle of a workflow. For example, to play an album before buying it. Use a glyph and/or text label so the user can visually identify the action trigger. When using a glyph label only, add a tooltip to the action trigger so that there is a secondary means for identifying the function of the action trigger.

Use *call to action* to urge a user to take action on what the page is converying or promoting. Always make sure to use unique text strings for each call to action. This leads to better accessibility and assists in quicker voice navigation. Always keep the text as concise as possible and use sentence casing (as opposed to all caps).

## Style guidance
Position the action trigger so that it is in close proximity to the item it will be acting upon, and where it is easy for the user to identify this association. If you need to navigate to another page or experience, use a hyperlink or call-to-action instead.

## Accessibility
An aria-label is populated with the content from the text property. This gives context to non-sighted users when using the glyph-only configuration.

Commit message:

respond to feedback.  Most significant change is using render prop to pass glyph to component.

packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/action-trigger/README.md, after:

# Action trigger
Action trigger performs an operation that is positioned inline on the page. Use action trigger for taking an action or for interacting with something like a file or media resource. Examples include “Save,” “Edit,” or “Play.” Using an action trigger keeps the user within the current context rather than forcing them to navigate to a different page. Thus, use an action trigger as part of an interactive in-page experience.  Action trigger is built using a host element such as a button or an anchor, and can also be used in a group of elements. Typically, action triggers are used inside interactive tables or related to other interactive content. This means that the trigger should be co-located with the positioning of the material it will be acting upon. There is no provision for displaying alternate labels to indicate a change of state — use the action toggle if you need this capability.

## Usage
Use action trigger to take an action in the middle of a workflow. For example, to play an album before buying it. Use a glyph and/or text label so the user can visually identify the action trigger. When using a glyph label only, add a tooltip to the action trigger so that there is a secondary means for identifying the function of the action trigger.

## Style guidance
Position the action trigger so that it is in close proximity to the item it will be acting upon, and where it is easy for the user to identify this association. 

## Accessibility
If more verbose language is needed to fully capture the *action trigger* meaning for assistive technologies, an unhandled prop `aria-label` may be used to provide more context.
