packages/fast-components-react-base/src/listbox/README.md, before:

## Listbox
A generic menu component implementing the [listbox](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#listbox) role and the keyboard navigation aligning to that role. The *listbox* will accept any child elements but only children with role of `"option"` will receive focus.

### Usage
To manage document focus the *listbox* assumes that all rendered children that have the role `"option"` and not decorated with aria-disabled are focusable html elements. It also expects that these elements are passed as *direct* children. Wrapping all menu items inside of a `React.Fragment` (or some other single element) will throw off the internal focus tracking of the *listbox*. Additionally, the *listbox* expects that all menu item children implement the `tabIndex` property and apply that property to the underlying DOM.

The *listbox* "typeAheadPropertyKey" prop indicates which prop the *listbox* examines on children to manage focus when text entry is used to control focus.  The referenced property must be a string.

### Accessibility
The *listbox* considers a child element focusable when it has a role of `"option"` and will manage focus between these elements automatically.

Commit message:

first crack at read me updates, tweaks

packages/fast-components-react-base/src/listbox/README.md, after:

## Listbox
A generic listbox component implementing the [listbox](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-1.1/#listbox) role and the keyboard navigation aligning to that role.

### Usage
The *listbox* will accept any child elements but the only children that should receive focus are either *listbox-item* or custom components that have the role of '"option"' and appropriately call the '"itemInvoked"' and '"itemFocused"' functions on the ListboxContext provided by the parent *listbox* component.  It also expects that these elements are passed as *direct* children. Wrapping all menu items inside of a `React.Fragment` (or some other single element) will throw off the internal focus tracking of the *listbox*. Additionally, the *listbox* expects that all menu item children implement the `tabIndex` property and apply that property to the underlying DOM.

The *listbox* "typeAheadPropertyKey" prop indicates which prop the *listbox* examines on children to manage focus when text entry is used to control focus.  The referenced property must be a string and the default value is '"displayString"' which matches the prop intended for user friendly strings on *listbox-item*.

A number of the *listbox* interfaces use data formatted as ListboxItemData objects which have the following properties:
- id:  the unique id of the corresponding option
- value: the string value associated with the option
- displayString: optional, a user friendly version of the value to display in ui.

To get results from user interaction with the listbox provide a callback function to the *listbox* '"onSelectedItemsChanged"' prop.  Whenever selection changes this function is called with the new array of selected '"ListboxItemData"' objects.

Use the optional '"defaultSelection"' prop to provide intially selected options to the component.  This props accepts an array of '"ListboxItemData"' objects.

Invalid items (ie. that don't have matching non-disabled items with the same id as children of the *listbox*) are removed and in single select mode only the first valid item is relevant.

Use the '"selectedItems"' prop for a fully controlled mode.  The options provided with this prop override all the *listbox* internal selection logic.

### Accessibility
Listbox implements the recommended keyboard navigation scheme described [here](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.1/#Listbox).
