packages/web-components/README.md, before:

# Web Components

Our web component packages.

## fast-element

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-element.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-element)

The `fast-element` library is a lightweight means to easily building performant, memory-efficient, standards-compliant Web Components. FAST Elements work in every major browser and can be used in combination with any front-end framework or even without a framework. To get up and running with `fast-element` see [the Getting Started guide](http://fast.design/docs/fast-element/getting-started).

## fast-foundation

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-foundation.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-foundation)

The `fast-foundation` package is a library of Web Component classes, templates, and other utilities intended to be composed into registered Web Components by design systems (e.g. Fluent Design, Material Design, etc.). The exports of this package can generally be thought of as un-styled base components that implement semantic and accessible markup and behavior.

This package does not export Web Components registered as [custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements) - it exports parts and pieces intended to be *composed* into Web Components, allowing you to implement your own design language by simply applying CSS styles and behaviors without having to write all the JavaScript that's involved in building production-quality component implementations.

## fast-components

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components)

`fast-components` is a library of Web Components that *composes* the exports of `fast-foundation` with stylesheets aligning to the FAST design language. This composition step registers a custom element. See the [quick start](http://fast.design/components/getting-started) to get started using the components.

## fast-components-msft

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components-msft.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components-msft)

`fast-components-msft` is a library of Web Components that *composes* `fast-foundation`. `fast-components-msft` uses the same custom element names as `fast-components`, but makes use of different stylesheets that support Microsoft's Fluent design language.

Commit message:

chore: update documentation to reflect rebranding of fast-components-msft to fluentui (#3625)
* chore: update documentation to reflect rebranding of fast-components-msft to fluent

* prrefix fast element and fast foundation packages

* update oopsies

packages/web-components/README.md, after:

# Web Components

Our web component packages.

## fast-element

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-element.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-element)

The `fast-element` library is a lightweight means to easily building performant, memory-efficient, standards-compliant Web Components. FAST Elements work in every major browser and can be used in combination with any front-end framework or even without a framework. To get up and running with `fast-element` see [the Getting Started guide](http://fast.design/docs/fast-element/getting-started).

## fast-foundation

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-foundation.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-foundation)

The `fast-foundation` package is a library of Web Component classes, templates, and other utilities intended to be composed into registered Web Components by design systems (e.g. Fluent Design, Material Design, etc.). The exports of this package can generally be thought of as un-styled base components that implement semantic and accessible markup and behavior.

This package does not export Web Components registered as [custom elements](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Web_Components/Using_custom_elements) - it exports parts and pieces intended to be *composed* into Web Components, allowing you to implement your own design language by simply applying CSS styles and behaviors without having to write all the JavaScript that's involved in building production-quality component implementations.

## fast-components

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components)

`fast-components` is a library of Web Components that *composes* the exports of `fast-foundation` with stylesheets aligning to the FAST design language. This composition step registers a custom element. See the [quick start](http://fast.design/components/getting-started) to get started using the components.

## fast-components-msft
**This package has been moved to [FluentUI](https://github.com/microsoft/fluentui/) and has been renamed to `@fluentui/web-components`**
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components-msft.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/%40microsoft%2Ffast-components-msft)

`@fluentui/web-components` is a library of Web Components that *composes* `fast-foundation`. `@fluentui/web-components` uses the same custom element names as `fast-components`, but makes use of different stylesheets and may include components that specifically support Microsoft's Fluent design language.
