---
id: "fast-element"
title: "fast-element "
layout: 2x-api
eleventyNavigation:
  key: "context.jsapi2xfast-element"
  parent: "@microsoft/fast-element/context.js2x"
  title: "fast-element "
navigationOptions:
  activeKey: "context.jsapi2xfast-element"
---
<!-- Do not edit this file. It is automatically generated by API Documenter. -->

[@microsoft/fast-element/context.js](../fast-element/index.html)


## Classes

<table><thead><tr><th>

Class


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[ContextEvent](../fast-element.contextevent/)


</td><td>

An event fired by a context requester to signal it desires a named context.

A provider should inspect the `context` property of the event to determine if it has a value that can satisfy the request, calling the `callback` with the requested value if so.

If the requested context event contains a truthy `multiple` value, then a provider can call the callback multiple times if the value is changed, if this is the case the provider should pass a `dispose` method to the callback which requesters can invoke to indicate they no longer wish to receive these updates.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Variables

<table><thead><tr><th>

Variable


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[Context](../fast-element.context/)


</td><td>

Enables using: [W3C Community Context protocol.](https://github.com/webcomponents-cg/community-protocols/blob/main/proposals/context.md)


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

## Type Aliases

<table><thead><tr><th>

Type Alias


</th><th>

Description


</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>

[Context](../fast-element.context/)


</td><td>

A Context object defines an optional initial value for a Context, as well as a name identifier for debugging purposes.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ContextCallback](../fast-element.contextcallback/)


</td><td>

A callback which is provided by a context requester and is called with the value satisfying the request. This callback can be called multiple times by context providers as the requested value is changed.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ContextDecorator](../fast-element.contextdecorator/)


</td><td>

A constant key that can be used to represent a Context dependency. The key can be used for context or DI but also doubles as a decorator for resolving the associated dependency.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[ContextType](../fast-element.contexttype/)


</td><td>

A helper type which can extract a Context value type from a Context type


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[FASTContext](../fast-element.fastcontext/)


</td><td>

A Context object defines an optional initial value for a Context, as well as a name identifier for debugging purposes. The FASTContext can also be used as a decorator to declare context dependencies or as a key for DI.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[FASTContextRequestStrategy](../fast-element.fastcontextrequeststrategy/)


</td><td>

A strategy that controls how all Context.request API calls are handled.


</td></tr>
<tr><td>

[UnknownContext](../fast-element.unknowncontext/)


</td><td>

An unknown context type.


</td></tr>
</tbody></table>
