packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/progress/README.md, before:

# Progress
The *progress* component is an [div](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/div) element with it `role` set to "progressbar". Setting the `value` prop will automatically display child elements with their `role` set to "deteminate" if `value` is undefined child elements with their `role` set to "indeteminate" will be displayed.

## Usage
The *progress* component should be used for an element that displays the progress status for a task that takes a long time or consists of several steps. The *progress* component indicates that the user's request has been received and the application is making progress toward completing the requested action. If the `value` of the *progress* component can't be determined then the indeterminate visuals will be shown until the `value` is determined.

## Style guidance
The determinate visuals should indicate to the user how much is remaining of a given task. The indeterminate should be a repeating animation to indicate to the user that their request is being processed and the application is responsive.

Commit message:

fix (progress): to include updated indeterminate animation (#1204)
* updated animation for progress components indeterminate state

* Updated read me with lnown issue guidance

* addressed PR Comments

* fixed docs based on feedback from Jason

* updated animations and merge conflicts

packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/progress/README.md, after:

# Progress
The *progress* component is an [div](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/div) element with it `role` set to "progressbar". Setting the `value` prop will automatically display child elements with their `role` set to "deteminate" if `value` is undefined child elements with their `role` set to "indeteminate" will be displayed.

## Usage
The *progress* component should be used for an element that displays the progress status for a task that takes a long time or consists of several steps. The *progress* component indicates that the user's request has been received and the application is making progress toward completing the requested action. If the `value` of the *progress* component can't be determined then the indeterminate visuals will be shown until the `value` is determined.

## Style guidance
The determinate visual display should indicate to the user how much is remaining of a given task. The indeterminate visual display should be a repeating animation to indicate to the user that their request is being processed and the application is responsive. When the horizontal progress bar abuts it's parent frame, its outer corner radius should be removed by overwriting the `progress_indicator` classname `border-radius` property to be `"0"`.


## Browser requirements
In Edge, there is known issue where percentage-based values (as found in the indeterminate animation) do not get recalculated when the container is resized. As a workaround for Edge, we recommend hardcoding the width of the progress bar to prevent animation issues.
