## Best practices
Use *media* to break up text-heavy pages, to illustrate products for sale, or to improve storytelling on a page. The use of *image* should always support the page’s story and, when possible, contribute to that story. Size the *media* to complement the rest of the page content. Use the **picture** option to employ a selection of image versions for different viewport sizes.

### Usage guidance
The *media* component will render either a **image** or **picture**. An **image** will be rendered if a `src` is set and `mediaSrcSet` can be used in conjucntion with `sizes` to render different size images at the same aspect ratio across different viewports. If no `src` is set then a **picture** will render and use `mediaSrcSet` to set one or more **source** elements. Use *media* with `src`, `mediaSrcSet` and `sizes` if you have the same image at the same aspect ratio across all viewports. User *media* with no `src` if you want different images at different aspect ratios across viewports.

## Accessibility
An image must **always** have an `alt` attribute. Not only does it give the image meaning for non-sighted users, but if the image fails to load, the `alt` text will be displayed instead. Always use descriptive `alt` text that concisely describes what the *image* conveys. Make sure you are communicating what the *image* is telling you visually. If the *image* is purely for visual decoration and does not convey any meaningful information, such as an icon to reinforce adjacent text, then you should set the `alt` attribute to an empty string: `alt=""`. *Images* with complex content (e.g. charts and graphs) may need an additional description for non-sighted users. For example, provide a link to a text description or describe the *image* in detail on the page itself.