docs/en/contributing/standards.md, before:

---
id: standards
title: Contributing
sidebar_label: Standards
---

# Standards

The following standards are used by FAST-DNA contributors for consistency across this repository.

## Naming Conventions

* Avoid all abbreviations, except where common industry acronyms.
* Use names that are clear and intuitive.
* Use semantic names instead of presentational.

## Accessibility

FAST-DNA works diligently from the ground up to enable accessibility in collaboration with legal, accessibility, and marketing teams. As an ecosystem to accelerate the building of website's and apps we ensure you have the tools to build accessible user exerpiences.

### Animation

* End users should have a mechanism to reduce or remove animations from their experience. The Safari devs have proposed a media query for reduced animation. ("prefers-reduced-motion").
* Some users with vestibular disorders or other cognitive disabilities have problems with movement. A safe fallback for nearly all users is fade animations.
* Flashing animations can cause seizures and should be avoided.

## JSS (JavaScript Style Sheets) usage

JSS class name contracts follow a [BEM-like](http://getbem.com/naming/) convention.

BEM for FAST-DNA is slightly modified because dashes (the character used to delimit *modifiers*) cannot be used as JavaScript object keys without using string literals. So, underscores are used instead. A single underscore separates an element from a block while two underscores separate a modifier from a block or element.

FAST-DNA example

```html
block_element__modifier
```

Within a block, element, or modifier, words should be camelCased

```html
anotherBlock_anotherElement__anotherModifier
```

Commit message:

fix: update typos, grammer, and formatting for .md files and comments (#1229)
* fix: updated typos, grammer and formatting for .md files and comments

* update to fix broken link

* Minor updates based on PR comments

* fix CONTRIBUTING.md merge issues

docs/en/contributing/standards.md, after:

---
id: standards
title: Standards
sidebar_label: Standards
---

Our contributors use these standards for consistency and quality in the repository.

## Naming conventions

* Avoid abbreviations unless they are common industry acronyms.
* Use names that are clear and intuitive.
* Use semantic names instead of presentational.

## Accessibility

Accessibility is acknowledged from the start of each new feature and must be addressed in a specification in the created issue before work can begin.

### Animation

* Users should have a mechanism to reduce or remove animations from their experience. The Safari developers have proposed a media query for reduced animation. ("prefers-reduced-motion"). Animations longer than 3 seconds must provide a way to stop the motion.
* Some users with vestibular disorders or other cognitive disabilities have problems with movement. A safe fallback for nearly all users is fade animations.
* Avoid flashing animations can cause seizures or discomfort.

## JSS (JavaScript Style Sheets) usage

JSS class names interfaces follow a [BEM-like](http://getbem.com/naming/) convention but our implementation of BEM is slightly modified because dashes — the character used to delimit *modifiers* — cannot be used as JavaScript object keys without using string literals; we use underscores instead. A single underscore separates an element from a block while two underscores separate a modifier from a block or element.

Example:

```html
block_element__modifier
```

Within a block, element, or modifier, words should be camelCased:

```html
anotherBlock_anotherElement__anotherModifier
