packages/fast-components-react-base/src/image/README.MD, before:

# Implementation

## Implementation example
```javascript

<!-- Returns <img />-->
<Image 
    src='https://placehold.it/539x300/2F2F2F/171717'
    alt='Placeholder with grey background and dimension watermark without any imagery'
/>

<!-- Returns <img /> using SrcSet-->
<Image 
    src='https://placehold.it/539x300/2F2F2F/171717'
    srcSet='https://placehold.it/1399x600/2F2F2F/171717 1399w, https://placehold.it/1083x500/2F2F2F/171717 1083w, https://placehold.it/767x400/2F2F2F/171717 767w'
    sizes='100vw'
    alt='Placeholder with grey background and dimension watermark without any imagery'
/>

<!-- Returns <picture />-->
<Image
    vp6='https://placehold.it/2048x600/2F2F2F/171717'
    vp5='https://placehold.it/1778x600/2F2F2F/171717'
    vp4='https://placehold.it/1399x600/2F2F2F/171717'
    vp3='https://placehold.it/1083x500/2F2F2F/171717'
    vp2='https://placehold.it/767x400/2F2F2F/171717'
    vp1='https://placehold.it/539x300/2F2F2F/171717'
    alt='Placeholder with grey background and dimension watermark without any imagery'
/>

```

Commit message:

feat(detail view): add detail view

packages/fast-components-react-base/src/image/README.MD, after:

## Best practices
Use *image* to break up text-heavy pages, to illustrate products for sale, or to improve storytelling on a page. The use of *image* should always support the page’s story and, when possible, contribute to that story. Size the *image* to complement the rest of the page content. Use the **picture** option to employ a selection of image versions for different viewport sizes.

### Style guidance
Don't use *image* as a substitute for *hero*, *feature*, or *product* and *content placements*. Don't use an image if it reduces the effectiveness of the page.

## Accessibility
An image must **always** have an `alt` attribute. Not only does it give the image meaning for non-sighted users, but if the image fails to load, the `alt` text will be displayed instead. Always use descriptive `alt` text that concisely describes what the *image* conveys. Make sure you are communicating what the *image* is telling you visually. If the *image* is purely for visual decoration and does not convey any meaningful information, such as an icon to reinforce adjacent text, then you should set the `alt` attribute to an empty string: `alt=""`. *Images* with complex content (e.g. charts and graphs) may need an additional description for non-sighted users. For example, provide a link to a text description or describe the *image* in detail on the page itself.
