specs/template.md, before:

# Spec Title

## Overview

*The name of the component, along with a high-level description.*

### Background

*Relevant historical or background information, related existing issues, etc.*

### Use Cases

*Primary use cases for this component.*

### Non-goals

*A list of use cases, features, or functionality which are **not** goals for the component*
  
### Features

*A list of the key features unique to this component.*

### Risks and Challenges

*Notable risks or challenges associated with implementing the component. Would we need to make any breaking changes in order to achieve this component's goals?*

### Prior Art/Examples

*Screenshots and/or links to existing, canonical, or exemplary implementations of the component.*

---

## Design

*Describe the design of the component, thinking through several perspectives:*

- *A customer using the component on a web page.*
- *A developer building an app with the component and interacting through HTML/CSS/JavaScript.*
- *A designer customizing the component.*

### API

*The key elements of the component's public API surface:*

- *Component Name*
- *Props/Attrs*
- *Methods*
- *Events*

*Consider high and low-level APIs. Attempt to design a powerful and extensible low-level API with a high-level API for developer/designer ergonomics and simplicity.*

### Anatomy and Appearance

*Screenshots and/or description of the basic appearance of the component. Outline its structure with a diagram of its visual tree (shadow dom). Enumerate key areas of visual customization, such as:*

- *Slot Names*
- *Host Classes*
- *Slotted Content/Slotted Classes*
- *CSS Parts*

---

## Implementation

*Important aspects of the planned implementation with careful consideration of web standards and integration.*

### States

*Key component states, valid state transitions, and how interactions trigger a state transition.*

### Accessibility

*Consider the accessibility of the component, including:*

- *Keyboard Navigation and Focus*
- *Form Input*
- *Use with Assistive Technology*
  - e.g. The implications shadow dom might have on how roles are presented to the AT.

### Globalization

*Consider whether the component has any special globalization needs such as:*

- *Special RTL handling*
- *Swapping of internal icons/visuals*
- *Localization*

### Security

*Are there any security implications surrounding the component?*

### Performance

*Are there any performance pitfalls or challenges with implementing the component?*

### Dependencies

*Will implementing the component require taking on any dependencies?*

- *3rd party libraries*
- *Upcoming standards we need to polyfill*
- *Dependencies on other fast components or utilities*

*Do any of these dependencies bring along an associated timeline?*

### Test Plan

*What is the plan for testing the component, if different from the normal path?*

### Tooling

*Are there any special considerations for tooling? Will tooling changes need to be made? Is there a special way to light up this component in our tooling that would be compelling for developers/designers?*

### Documentation

*What additions or changes are needed for user documentation and demos? Are there any architectural/engineering docs we should create as well, perhaps due to some interesting technical challenge or design decisions related to this component?*

---

## Resources

*Any related resource links such as web standards, discussion threads, diagrams, etc.*

## Next Steps

*What next steps, if any, are there? Is there some functionality that would be a nice-to-have or a common feature in other implementations that could be added but is not considered part of the MVP?*

Commit message:

feat: adds mixin to support global aria-* attributes for components delegating focus (#3470)
* feat: adds mixin to support global aria-* attributes for components delegating focus

* add detail to template calling out delegates focus nuance

* update delegates focus naming and update mixin behavior

* document api

* add tsdoc to delegatesariatextbox

* update API report

* pretty pretty html

specs/template.md, after:

# Spec Title

## Overview

*The name of the component, along with a high-level description.*

### Background

*Relevant historical or background information, related existing issues, etc.*

### Use Cases

*Primary use cases for this component.*

### Non-goals

*A list of use cases, features, or functionality which are **not** goals for the component*
  
### Features

*A list of the key features unique to this component.*

### Risks and Challenges

*Notable risks or challenges associated with implementing the component. Would we need to make any breaking changes in order to achieve this component's goals?*

### Prior Art/Examples

*Screenshots and/or links to existing, canonical, or exemplary implementations of the component.*

---

## Design

*Describe the design of the component, thinking through several perspectives:*

- *A customer using the component on a web page.*
- *A developer building an app with the component and interacting through HTML/CSS/JavaScript.*
- *A designer customizing the component.*

### API

*The key elements of the component's public API surface:*

- *Component Name*
- *Props/Attrs*
- *Methods*
- *Events*

*Consider high and low-level APIs. Attempt to design a powerful and extensible low-level API with a high-level API for developer/designer ergonomics and simplicity.*

### Anatomy and Appearance

*Screenshots and/or description of the basic appearance of the component. Outline its structure with a diagram of its visual tree (shadow dom). Enumerate key areas of visual customization, such as:*

- *Slot Names*
- *Host Classes*
- *Slotted Content/Slotted Classes*
- *CSS Parts*

---

## Implementation

*Important aspects of the planned implementation with careful consideration of web standards and integration.*

### States

*Key component states, valid state transitions, and how interactions trigger a state transition.*

### Accessibility

*Consider the accessibility of the component, including:*

- *Keyboard Navigation and Focus*
- *Form Input*
- *Use with Assistive Technology*
  - e.g. The implications shadow dom might have on how roles and attributes are presented to the AT. Components which delegate focus require all global aria-* attributes to be enumerated.

### Globalization

*Consider whether the component has any special globalization needs such as:*

- *Special RTL handling*
- *Swapping of internal icons/visuals*
- *Localization*

### Security

*Are there any security implications surrounding the component?*

### Performance

*Are there any performance pitfalls or challenges with implementing the component?*

### Dependencies

*Will implementing the component require taking on any dependencies?*

- *3rd party libraries*
- *Upcoming standards we need to polyfill*
- *Dependencies on other fast components or utilities*

*Do any of these dependencies bring along an associated timeline?*

### Test Plan

*What is the plan for testing the component, if different from the normal path?*

### Tooling

*Are there any special considerations for tooling? Will tooling changes need to be made? Is there a special way to light up this component in our tooling that would be compelling for developers/designers?*

### Documentation

*What additions or changes are needed for user documentation and demos? Are there any architectural/engineering docs we should create as well, perhaps due to some interesting technical challenge or design decisions related to this component?*

---

## Resources

*Any related resource links such as web standards, discussion threads, diagrams, etc.*

## Next Steps

*What next steps, if any, are there? Is there some functionality that would be a nice-to-have or a common feature in other implementations that could be added but is not considered part of the MVP?*
