packages/web-components/fast-foundation/docs/guide/styling-components.doc.md, before:

---
id: styling-components
title: Styling Components
sidebar_label: Styling Components
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast-dna/edit/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/docs/guide/styling-components.doc.md
---

## Design System
In FAST, the *design system* is a collection of properties and values that inform the visual design language of the components. These properties are managed and provided through implementations of the *DesignSystemProvider*. See the [*DesignSystemProvider* documentation](https://github.com/microsoft/fast-dna/tree/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/src/design-system-provider) for more information.

For the purposes of this section, the *DesignSystemProvider* is a Custom Element that will create CSS Custom Properties that can be consumed by component stylesheets and provide mechanisms to synchronize, update, and consume those properties programmatically.

### Type Ramp
The FAST type ramp is exposed by the `FASTDesignSystemProvider` as CSS Custom Properties. It centers the ramp around a _base_ font size and line-height, ascending and descending from the _base_. The CSS Custom Properties that can be used are:

| Level              | Font Size                       | Line Height                      |
|--------------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Minus 2 (smallest) | `--type-ramp-minus-2-font-size` | `--type-ramp-minus-2-line-height`|
| Minus 1            | `--type-ramp-minus-1-font-size` | `--type-ramp-minus-1-line-height`|
| Base (body)        | `--type-ramp-base-font-size`    | `--type-ramp-base-line-height`   |
| Plus 1             | `--type-ramp-plus-1-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-1-line-height` |
| Plus 2             | `--type-ramp-plus-2-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-2-line-height` |
| Plus 3             | `--type-ramp-plus-3-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-3-line-height` |
| Plus 4             | `--type-ramp-plus-4-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-4-line-height` |
| Plus 5             | `--type-ramp-plus-5-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-5-line-height` |
| Plus 6 (largest)   | `--type-ramp-plus-6-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-6-line-height` |

## Conditional Stylesheets
### Forced-colors Stylesheets
FAST has a commitment to facilitating accessible web experiences and [forced-colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors) support is a core tenant of that commitment. `@microsoft/fast-components` exports the `forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior` utility to provide a simple mechanism to apply forced-color stylesheets without bloating the component stylesheet in non-forced-color environments:

__Example: Forced-colors stylesheets
```js
import { forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior } from "@microsoft/fast-foundation";
import { SystemColors } from "@microsoft/fast-web-utilities";
const styles = css`
    /* ... */
`.withBehaviors(
    forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior(css`
        :host {
            background: ${SystemColors.Canvas};
            color: ${SystemColors.CanvasText};
        }
        /* ... */
    `)
)
```

### MatchMedia Stylesheets
`forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior` builds is an implementation of the `matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory, which can be used to create custom implementations of stylesheets that will be conditionally attached based on a [MediaQueryList](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaQueryList).

__Example: Using the `matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory__
```js
import { matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory } from "@microsoft/fast-foundation";
const query = Window.matchMedia('(max-width: 600px)');
const maxWidthStylesheetBehavior = matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory(query)
const styles = css`
    /* ... */
`.withBehaviors(
    maxWidthStylesheetBehavior(css`
        body {
            color: red;
        }
    `)
)
```

## Hiding Undefined Elements
Custom Elements that have not been [upgraded](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/customelements#upgrades) and don't have styles attached can still be rendered by the browser but they likely do not look how they are supposed to. To avoid a *flash of un-styled content* (FOUC) you should be sure to visually hide Custom Elements if they have not been *defined*:

```CSS
:not(:defined) {
    visibility: hidden;
}
```
Note, this will need to be applied by the consuming application and will not be applied by the components themselves.

Commit message:

add link to fast-element

packages/web-components/fast-foundation/docs/guide/styling-components.doc.md, after:

---
id: styling-components
title: Styling Components
sidebar_label: Styling Components
custom_edit_url: https://github.com/microsoft/fast-dna/edit/master/packages/web-components/fast-foundation/docs/guide/styling-components.doc.md
---
## Applying CSS
`@microsoft/fast-components` leverages `@microsoft/fast-element` to style components. For details on how to apply CSS, see [leveraging CSS](fast-element/leveraging-css.md).

## Design System
In FAST, the *design system* is a collection of properties and values that inform the visual design language of the components. These properties are managed and provided through implementations of the *DesignSystemProvider*. See the [*DesignSystemProvider* documentation](fast-foundation/fast-design-system-provider.md) for more information.

For the purposes of this section, the *DesignSystemProvider* is a Custom Element that will create CSS Custom Properties that can be consumed by component stylesheets and provide mechanisms to synchronize, update, and consume those properties programmatically.

### Type Ramp
The FAST type ramp is exposed by the `FASTDesignSystemProvider` as CSS Custom Properties. It centers the ramp around a _base_ font size and line-height, ascending and descending from the _base_. The CSS Custom Properties that can be used are:

| Level              | Font Size                       | Line Height                      |
|--------------------|---------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Minus 2 (smallest) | `--type-ramp-minus-2-font-size` | `--type-ramp-minus-2-line-height`|
| Minus 1            | `--type-ramp-minus-1-font-size` | `--type-ramp-minus-1-line-height`|
| Base (body)        | `--type-ramp-base-font-size`    | `--type-ramp-base-line-height`   |
| Plus 1             | `--type-ramp-plus-1-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-1-line-height` |
| Plus 2             | `--type-ramp-plus-2-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-2-line-height` |
| Plus 3             | `--type-ramp-plus-3-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-3-line-height` |
| Plus 4             | `--type-ramp-plus-4-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-4-line-height` |
| Plus 5             | `--type-ramp-plus-5-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-5-line-height` |
| Plus 6 (largest)   | `--type-ramp-plus-6-font-size`  | `--type-ramp-plus-6-line-height` |

## Conditional Stylesheets
### Forced-colors Stylesheets
FAST has a commitment to facilitating accessible web experiences and [forced-colors](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@media/forced-colors) support is a core tenant of that commitment. `@microsoft/fast-components` exports the `forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior` utility to provide a simple mechanism to apply forced-color stylesheets without bloating the component stylesheet in non-forced-color environments:

__Example: Forced-colors stylesheets
```js
import { forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior } from "@microsoft/fast-foundation";
import { SystemColors } from "@microsoft/fast-web-utilities";
const styles = css`
    /* ... */
`.withBehaviors(
    forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior(css`
        :host {
            background: ${SystemColors.Canvas};
            color: ${SystemColors.CanvasText};
        }
        /* ... */
    `)
)
```

### MatchMedia Stylesheets
`forcedColorsStylesheetBehavior` builds is an implementation of the `matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory, which can be used to create custom implementations of stylesheets that will be conditionally attached based on a [MediaQueryList](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaQueryList).

__Example: Using the `matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory__
```js
import { matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory } from "@microsoft/fast-foundation";
const query = Window.matchMedia('(max-width: 600px)');
const maxWidthStylesheetBehavior = matchMediaStylesheetBehaviorFactory(query)
const styles = css`
    /* ... */
`.withBehaviors(
    maxWidthStylesheetBehavior(css`
        body {
            color: red;
        }
    `)
)
```

## Hiding Undefined Elements
Custom Elements that have not been [upgraded](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/web-components/customelements#upgrades) and don't have styles attached can still be rendered by the browser but they likely do not look how they are supposed to. To avoid a *flash of un-styled content* (FOUC) you should be sure to visually hide Custom Elements if they have not been *defined*:

```CSS
:not(:defined) {
    visibility: hidden;
}
```
Note, this will need to be applied by the consuming application and will not be applied by the components themselves.
