packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/image/README.md, before:

# Image
Use *image* to break up text-heavy pages, to illustrate products for sale, or to improve storytelling on a page. The use of *image* should always support the page’s story and, when possible, contribute to that story. Size the *image* to complement the rest of the page content. Use the **picture** option to employ a selection of image versions for different viewport sizes.

## Style guidance
Don't use an image if it reduces the effectiveness of the page.

## Accessibility
An image must **always** have an `alt` attribute. Not only does it give the image meaning for non-sighted users, but if the image fails to load, the `alt` text will be displayed instead. Always use descriptive `alt` text that concisely describes what the *image* conveys. Make sure you are communicating what the *image* is telling you visually. If the *image* is purely for visual decoration and does not convey any meaningful information, such as an icon to reinforce adjacent text, then you should set the `alt` attribute to an empty string: `alt=""`. *Images* with complex content (e.g. charts and graphs) may need an additional description for non-sighted users. For example, provide a link to a text description or describe the *image* in detail on the page itself.

Commit message:

refactor(image): remove viewport specific logic in favor of slots

packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/image/README.md, after:

# Image
The *image* component is based on the standard [image](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/img) and [picture](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/picture) elements. A **picture** element can be created by passing one or more [source](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/source) elements as `children` with a prop of `slot="source"`. Consult [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images) for more information on responsive images.

## Style guidance
Use *image* to break up text-heavy pages, to illustrate products for sale, or to improve storytelling on a page. The use of *image* should always support the page’s story and, when possible, contribute to that story. Size the *image* to complement the rest of the page content. Don't use an image if it reduces the effectiveness of the page.

## Accessibility
An image must **always** have an `alt` attribute. Not only does it give the image meaning for non-sighted users, but if the image fails to load, the `alt` text will be displayed instead. Always use descriptive `alt` text that concisely describes what the *image* conveys. Make sure you are communicating what the *image* is telling you visually. If the *image* is purely for visual decoration and does not convey any meaningful information, such as an icon to reinforce adjacent text, then you should set the `alt` attribute to an empty string: `alt=""`. *Images* with complex content (e.g. charts and graphs) may need an additional description for non-sighted users. For example, provide a link to a text description or describe the *image* in detail on the page itself.
