packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/button/README.md, before:

# Button

The *Button* component can be either an [`<a>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a) or [`<button>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button) element but will appear with button styling. Setting the `href` prop will set the element to [`<a>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a) automatically.

## Usage

Make sure the button text conveys a clear purpose to the user. Button text must describe the action the button will perform and should include a verb. Use concise, specific, self-explanatory text &ndash; usually a single word. Buttons should always include a noun if there is any room for interpretation about what the verb operates on. If the button’s text content is dynamic, consider how the button will resize and what will happen to components around it. Use only a single line of text. The text shouldn’t change unless for localization. Default buttons should always perform safe operations. For example, a default button should never delete.

## Style guidance

Show only one primary button that inherits theme color at rest state. In the event there are more than two buttons with equal priority, all buttons should have neutral backgrounds. “Submit,” “OK,” and “Apply” buttons should always be styled as primary buttons. When “Reset” or “Cancel” buttons appear alongside one of the above, they should be styled as secondary buttons.

Commit message:

feat: add render props for before and after slots in button (#1266)
* starts work adding rendered props for slots

* adds render props to button for before and after slots

* updates documentation

* updates glyph

* chamges naming from slots to content

* updates CTA to use render prop

* fix typo

* fixes typo

* changes div to span

* updates typing

packages/fast-components-react-msft/src/button/README.md, after:

# Button

The *Button* component can be either an [`<a>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a) or [`<button>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/button) element but will appear with button styling. Setting the `href` prop will set the element to [`<a>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a) automatically.

## Usage

Make sure the button text conveys a clear purpose to the user. Button text must describe the action the button will perform and should include a verb. Use concise, specific, self-explanatory text &ndash; usually a single word. Buttons should always include a noun if there is any room for interpretation about what the verb operates on. If the button’s text content is dynamic, consider how the button will resize and what will happen to components around it. Use only a single line of text. The text shouldn’t change unless for localization. Default buttons should always perform safe operations. For example, a default button should never delete. Properties are provided to populate the preceding and trailing space around the button content, typically used to add glyphs before and/or after button text.

## Style guidance

Show only one primary button that inherits theme color at rest state. In the event there are more than two buttons with equal priority, all buttons should have neutral backgrounds. “Submit,” “OK,” and “Apply” buttons should always be styled as primary buttons. When “Reset” or “Cancel” buttons appear alongside one of the above, they should be styled as secondary buttons.
